## Features
This application has many established (and to-be established™) features.

### General User Functionality
- Registration
- Profile customization (Avatar, Bio, Location and more)
- Create A New Post
- Reply to an Existing Post.
- Forum Navigation

### Administrator functionality
- User Management
- Role Management
- Forum Management
- Posts Management
- Category Management
- Forum Hierarchy Management (WIP ~ JsTree)

## Architecture
The index of the site is `/Forums`. Any attempts to navigate to `/` will result in a redirect to `/Forums`. This was done
intentionally to preserve the folder/file structure under `/Pages`. Maybe a good idea, maybe a terrible one, but I can
live with it. 

### Web Libraries
Under /wwwroot, the following libraries are installed:
- `Bootstrap`: All of our pages are rendered within the Bootstrap framework.
- `Jstree`: A library that can render and manage tree-related content.
- `J-query`: The infamous jay query. Used to query the DOM with ease?

### Shared ViewComponents
ViewComponents can be rendered in any razor markup. Some ViewComponents expect parameters to be passed while others may 
not. For specifics, check out the shared component under `/Pages/Shared`
- `Breadcrumbs`: A breadcrumb panel that can be rendered to provide better site navigation.
- `ForumList`: Used to display a list of forums within razor markup. 
- `PostList`: Used to display a list of posts within razor markup.
- `UserPhoto`: Displays a users avatar if they have one, if not it displays they're initials.
- `UserProfile`: A user profile dropdown that only displays in the navigation bar.
- `UserStats`: A component that displays a summary of user statistics
- `_ExternalSVG`: A component that can load external svg files into razor markup.
- `_JsTreeScripts`: Loads the jstree library and renders a tree.

### Project Structure
- `Data`: Contains our EF core configurations and Db Context. 
- `Extensions`: C# class extensions for some our entities. The extensions mostly provide utility "mapper" functions
to map one data type to another. (i.e From a form -> the entity or vice versa)
- `Helpers`: Helper classes for formatting dates, raw html and user related information.
- `Mappings`: Object mappings for Automapper. This is mostly used to simplify converting between DTO and Entity objects.
- `Middleware`: Includes install/migration middleware that will conditionally
on startup.
- `Migrations`: SQL migration files generated by Entity Framework Core. 
- `Models`: Stores Models for our Entities and DTOs
  - `Entities`: Entity Framework Core Entity classes
  - `DTOs`: Data transfer objects for our entities
- `Pages`: All the actual razor markup in this application
  - `Shared/Components`: All of our reusable, shared components'
- `Services`: Services in this application typically interact with an entity (table) in the database and return data
back to the caller (typically a Razor PageModel)

### Supported Databases
- Standard MySQL (not SQL server)

### Important NuGet Packages
NETForum leverages a handful of nuget packages to support other services, such as a database.
- **Entity Framework Core** (including Design & Tools): Entity Framework core is an abstraction that allows us to use models
to interact with different database engines. We also leverage design & tools to gain the ability to automatically
generate SQL migrations when these models change. 
- **HtmlAgilityPack**: For manipulating raw HTML strings.
- **AspNetCore.SassCompiler**: This package compiles sass into css everytime a build is ran. This allows us to customize
default Bootstrap theme colors in our app.
- **Pomelo.EntityFrameworkCore.MySql**: This package is an implementation that Entity Framework Core can leverage
to interact with standard MySQL databases. Not to be confused with SQL Server.
- **AutoMapper**: This package allows us to set up automatic mapping between different class types in the Program.

## Development
For development, all you really need is `dotnet` (version 8) installed on your machine, and a standard SQL database 
(Not SQLite or SQL Server) 

If you have Docker installed, you can use the `docker-compose.yml` file in this repository to host a SQL database. 

You'll need to add your SQL connection string to `appsettings.json` under `ConnectionStrings.DefaultConnection`, if you 
want data that is. Once added, you can spin up the application.

The application should™ initialize the database with the necessary tables and relationships. You will be met with an 
installation screen. Be careful, this is the "Owner" user of the website and has full access. 

Once registered you will be redirected to the index of the site, automatically signed in. If you click on your user in
the top right, and then select "Manage website".

This will allow you to start configuring the site (hopefully). Good Luck! 

Seriously though, if you find any issues please feel free to create an issue for it in Github. 


